JavaScript is an astoundingly powerful language, driving the modern-day frontend of the web. Part of this lies in the fact that it comes equipped with a whole ecosystem of **_events_** that allows us to handle given **_actions_**.

The actions can be initiated by the user and be as simple as a mouse click, a key press, or a touch gesture. They can even be browser-initiated, such as completing the loading of a particular resource.

## <font color="#4bacc6">What are events?</font>

Let's start with the most basic idea — _what exactly is meant by an 'event'?_

Well, technically speaking:

>An **_event_** is an **action** occurring on a web page.

As we stated previously, the action can be initiated either by the user or by the browser itself.

For instance, suppose a user clicks a button on a web page. Here the event is the _'clicking'_ action made by the user. Similarly, when the browser completes the download of a given resource, it might notify the JavaScript engine of this fact. And once again, we have an event — the completion of the resource's download — this time initiated by the browser itself.

In short, whatever the case be, an _event_ is just an _action_.

> _Now how many such actions could you think about, that a user or the browser could initiate while he/she is using a web page?_

To give you a head start, the user can press a key on the keyboard, play an audio element, switch to full screen mode.

## <font color="#4bacc6">Event's name (or type)</font>

Every event in JavaScript is denoted by a **_name_**. This name is typically a verb, since an event represents an action (and a verb also represents an action).

Let's take the example of a mouse click. In JavaScript, the click action is referred to as the `click` event. So when we click on a certain element in a web page, the `click` event occurs. 

Sometimes the event's name is also referred to as the event's **_type_**.

In this regard, henceforth, the type of the click event would be, well, `click`

Knowing this second term is important since the Events API provides us with a `type` property on an event object to inspect about the type of an event; or in other words, inspect its name. We'll see the details to this in a later chapter in this very unit.

## <font color="#4bacc6">Event's target</font>

Apart from the name, every single event has an underlying **_target_**.

> The **_target_** is simply an object on which the event takes place.

For instance, if we click on a `<div>` element, then the target of the `click` event would be that `<div>` element. Similarly, if a given `<script>` loads completely, then the target of the consequently occurring `load` event would be that `<script>` element.

> There can **never** be an event without a target. It's that simple


## <font color="#4bacc6">Event's handler</font>

When an event occurs on a web page, the corresponding JavaScript engine gets notified of it and then a corresponding block of code gets executed, if there is any.

Such a block of code is set up the developer in the form of a function. This shouldn't be any surprising because it's only the function construct that can hold a block of code and execute it on demand.

This function is what we refer to as the **_event's handler_**.

> An event's **_handler function_**, or simply **_handler_**, is a function set up by the developer to handle the event, when it occurs.

Sometimes, the handler is also called the event's **_listener function_**, or simply **_listener_**.

Event handlers are automatically invoked by the JavaScript engine when their underlying event occurs.

> [!info]
> > And when that does happen, they even get provided with an argument object. This argument is commonly known as the **_event object_** and serves to host a plethora of properties and methods to allow the developer to inspect details of the occurred event.

## <font color="#ffffff"><span style="background:#9254de">Source-> https://www.codeguage.com/courses/js/events-basics</span></font>


