In JavaScript, there are essentially three ways to setup event handlers:

> [!info] Ways
> 1. Use event-handling properties
> 2. Use the `EventTarget` interface
> 3. Use event-handling HTML attributes

## <font color="#4bacc6">1. Use event-handling properties</font>

Many interfaces in JavaScript are extended by these so-called **_event-handling properties_**. They begin with the word _'on'_ followed by the name of an event, all in lowercase, and simply serve one purpose — to hold a handler for the given event.

For instance, taking the `click` event as an example, its corresponding event-handling property is `onclick`. This property is available on all objects that can potentially receive a mouse click on a web page. To be precise, `onclick` is defined on the `HTMLElement` interface.

As a quick example, if we wish to handle the `click` event on the following `<button>` element,

```html
<button>Click me!</button>
```

we'd write something as follows:

```js
var buttonElement = document.querySelector('button');

buttonElement.onclick = function() {
   // Handle the click event over here.
}
```

Here, the function assigned to the `onclick` property is what we'll call the `click` event's handler.

Now, since `onclick` is just another JavaScript property, we can even assign it a function identifier, instead of assigning it an anonymous function expression directly, as demonstrated below:

```js
var buttonElement = document.querySelector('button');

function buttonClickHandler() {
   // Handle the click event over here.
}

buttonElement.onclick = buttonClickHandler;
```

Note that we don't have to call the function `buttonClickHandler()`; just pass its reference to the `onclick` property, which will then automatically be called by the JavaScript engine on the occurrence of a click.

> [!note]
> Event-handling properties are extremely well-supported across a majority of browsers, including the ancient ones. This shouldn't be surprising at all, since they are part of the legacy DOM, which itself has an amazing browser support.


## <font color="#4bacc6">2. The `EventTarget` interface</font>

The property-based approach above to set up event handlers works well in all but some complex cases. These complex cases are when we want to use more than one event handler.

For instance, consider the following hypothetical JavaScript code:

```js
var buttonElement = document.querySelector('button');

function handler1() { /* ... */ }
function handler2() { /* ... */ }

buttonElement.onclick = handler1;
buttonElement.onclick = handler2;
```

We wish to set up two click event handlers here on the `<button>` element that should both execute when the button is clicked.

However, we can't assign them one after another to the `<button>`'s `onclick` property, since the second assignment, to `handler2`, overrides the first one.

With the `onclick` approach, the only way to use multiple handling functions is by manually calling them inside one single function and then using this function as the handler function, as shown below:

```js
var buttonElement = document.querySelector('button');

function handler1() { /* ... */ }
function handler2() { /* ... */ }

buttonElement.onclick = function() {
   handler1();
   handler2();
}
```

However, this could only work when we have access to the handling functions upfront.

Suppose that the handler is obtained from another program, or worse yet, another program itself wants to add its own handlers in addition to your handlers. In both these cases, it would be totally impossible for us to set up all the handlers by directly working with `onclick`.

_Absolutely, no way!_

And that's where the **`EventTarget`** interface comes to the rescue.

The DOM Level 2 standard introduced the `EventTarget` interface as another, more mature and powerful, means to work with events in JavaScript besides the legacy DOM approach of using event-handling properties.

The interface defines two really basic, yet extremely flexible, methods to set up and remove event handlers from given target objects. They are **`addEventListener()`** and **`removeEventListener()`**, respectively.

### <font color="#f79646">2.1. `addEventListener()`</font>

As the name suggests, the **`addEventListener()`** method is used to add an event listener for the target object it's called on.

Here's the syntax of `addEventListener()`:

> [!example] Syntax
> _targetObj_.**addEventListener**(_name_, _listener_)


_`targetObject`_ is an instance of `EventTarget` on which we wish to handle a given event, _`name`_ is a string representing the name of the event (aka its type), and _`listener`_ is the listener function (aka the handler function) for the event.

All nodes in the DOM tree are instances of the `Node` interface, which inherits from the `EventTarget` interface. Thus, all element nodes have the methods `addEventListener()` and `removeListener()` available to them.

Let's consider an example utilising `addEventListener()` instead of `onclick`.

In the following code, we set up a click handler on the `<button>` element in order to make an alert when it's clicked:

```js
var buttonElement = document.querySelector('button');

buttonElement.addEventListener('click', function() {
   alert('You clicked the button!');
});
```

1. First, we select the `<button>`, as before.
2. Next, we invoke `addEventListener()` on the selected element in order to set up a `click` handler.
3. The first argument is `'click'` as we want to listen for the `click` event occurring on the given button.
4. The second argument is the handler function, which is the exact same as before.

### <font color="#f79646">2.2`removeEventListener()`</font>

As with the event-handling property approach that we saw above, it's possible to remove an event handler set up via `addEventListener()`. That is by using `removeEventListener()`.

However, unlike the former approach, where we ought to set an event-handling property to `null` in order to remove the corresponding handler, we need to pass the handler's reference to  `removeEventListener()` that we wish to remove.